#sociology #capitalism #community #presence #post-truth #handwritten

[[MoC - Autogénesis]]

 Soviet Union [Hyper Normalization](https://www.bbc.co.uk/iplayer/episode/p04b183c/hypernormalisation) Video

We're retreating into a fake world where we pretend there are no consequences for our actions, but political actions and civilian actions that have harmed the world have been festering and are starting to catch up. Post-truth is the concept that personal belief and appeal to emotion have more weight than objectivity. But instead of facing the truth, we let all the insane shit happen to us because it's death by a thousand cuts. A thousand tiny regressions of our rights, destructive and immoral actions to others, are happening everywhere, and becoming so common place that we turn a blind eye. JRR Tolkien is a deonisist, believing that humanity was great when we started, but history is & will continue to be a series of losses for humans. This is why faith to provide meaning, or Autogénesis to provide Becoming are so important to our spiritual existence. No spirit and we're all just empty husks, trained only to react, but not proactively seek better. Community can help, but strength in community often results in intolerant groups of people that can't handle difference or dissent. The free market strips the proletariats/ladudites of their power, as those with knowledge, social capital, & finances dominate those without—perpetually securing their bag until something shifts the balance of power. All of this to say, I'm continually reinforced that we're right where we're supposed to be. I'm not saying things are good. But these are all problems that had to come to a head at some point. We always have the power to manifest a better timeline. But it takes collective action, intentionality, dedication to mentorship at every level, and checks & balances. These are human problems, and humans are the problem. You can't tell people what to do, but you also can't leave them directionless. Who knows what I've missed here, I'm not sure where I'm wrong.
